Welcome to Cinema Summary, Ladies and Gentlemen.
Today we’re discussing a Spanish film called "El Hoyo",
or "The Platform" as it’s known in English:
A dystopian science fiction-fantasy-ish film about
humanity, desperation, and what happens in
a worse case scenario.
Now just a heads up, I’ll be going through
a summary of the film’s events.
So that means spoilers ahead, before going
on at length about the film: it’s themes,
the message, the ideas it discusses and how
you should go about watching this film because
it’s not like most films.
But with at out of the way!
This is The Platform explained.
So first thing we see is that of a fancy pants
kitchen where this food inspector guy goes
about inspecting the kitchen, looking over
prepared dishes and finding it to his liking.
It’s after this that we meet this guy played
by Ivan Massague, named Goreng in this very
spacious cell block with a rectangular hole
in the ceiling and the floor.
And as you can see, it gives you a very clear view
of everyone above you and below you.
But Goreng's not alone, there’s this older
gentleman named Trimagasi played by Zorion...
Eguileor.
Who is a bit stand offish, not very
friendly, and uh... kind of a prick.
Let's be honest.
So we got
2 strangers in a room together and
they just talk about this place
because ladies and gentlemen, is The Pit, an
underground prison complex with cells that
are 6 meters tall, the building itself stretching
deep beneath the earth and no one’s really
sure how far it goes down there.
But what the prisoners do know is
that there are rules here.
Rule 1: Any prisoner who enters can come in
with a single thing from the outside, Goreng
himself has a copy of Don Quixote to pass
the time and finally getting to read it while
Trimagasi has a self-sharpening knife.
Oh yeah and rule #3: Every month,
the prisoners are gassed unconscious
so that they may be moved to a different
level and in turn a new cell mate.
And finally Rule #2: You’re not allowed
to take any food off the platform lest you
be burned or frozen to death.
You see in this complex, there’s this magically
rising and falling platform that’s stocked
with the food prepped in the kitchen as we
saw in the beginning of the film.
With the upper levels, starting from
Level 0--With Level 0 being the kitchen
getting the first pick and descending from  there on
And since there are a lot of levels and only
this much food in this prison, food is
like dark humor: Not everyone gets it.
So the lower the prison goes, the less food
there is for everyone else and because of this
people go a little mad sometimes.
Now mind you there’s this process to enter
the prison voluntarily as people like Goreng,
crazily enough, want to get into the prison
as they can get some social mobility points,
not the exact wording used in the film but
think social credit or certification
as Goreng himself enters as he
himself wants to quit smoking
which is just crazy
But anyway back to the platform, the food
is there in each room, or each level I should say
for 2 minutes before the platforms descends again
and of course people get a little
angry with this whole deal.
And you’re anything like Trimagasi,
you’ll spit in it or do much worse,
which doesn’t make him any friends
with the people down below.
It’s like the most miserable battle royale
game but instead of trying to kill
people, you’re just trying to just survive
although killing people isn't off the menu
**wink wink**
Now since Goreng and Trimagasi are on the 48th
floor, the food is not at all hygienic.
I mean it's so nasty that your dog probably
wouldn’t eat this, I mean I know mine wouldn't eat it
I know mine wouldn’t eat it because she dead,
but that’s besides the point.
It's just *Dracula disgust noises*
And of course when you’re stuck in this situation,
you try to keep to yourself, hold
out against the hunger and refuse to
eat it which is what Goreng does.
Since he know’s this food is  disgusting but
ultimately, hunger wins out and he gives in.
It’s a very difficult dilemma to deal with and this conflict
In-and-of-itself is a key part of the
narrative and theme of the movie: how do people
deal with being in an extreme situation where
their class or level, determines their privileged
How do we react?
How do we deal?
Do we try to play along?
Do we try to do what we can to
screw the other guy?
Or do we try and refuse to partake in the
institution and systems that put us in this
situation like Goreng tries to do?
And this doesn’t have to be for just
food, you could apply this similar principle
to other things like medicine, fuel, money, weapons,
clothing or shelter as some examples
And as we see already, it seems that the best
option is to partake in the system for your
own survival, nothing against the other guy,
it's just I'm trying to get by and do what’s
best for me
A very rational egoist argument.
Now, as I said before
People do what's best for them or what they think is best
for them, so some people toss themselves down the
hole, some people murder each other which at least
means there’s more food for everyone else
or sometimes you get people like Miharu.
This crazy mute chick whose obsessed with finding a
child-her child specifically. Whose been kept here in this
prison, and she's been a long time going up and down
the platform searching for her missing child
and who ultimately saves Goreng’s
life after Trimagasi tries to kill him.
Ultimately this goes on for months, with Goreng
losing bits and pieces of his mind to the
savagery and craziness of this whole situation
Especially when he’s taken to Level 252
where food barely arrives
and is given a different cell mate named Imoguiri
whose name I totally butchered
who was the woman who interviewed
Goreng before allowing him entry into the prison
and who suffers a grisly fate
in order to save Goreng
Later, Goreng meets his new celly named Baharat,
on Level 6 who initially tries to rope climb
his way out and up to Level 0 but then
Goreng comes up with a different plan
If a scarcity of food is the problem then they
have to make sure everyone has enough to eat
and to do so,  the two of them ride the platform down together and ration out the food to the prisoners
and as a prelude to the rebellion.
The two of them [plan to] send up a panna cotta up to
Level 0 as proof that they can change the
system and have the conviction
to not mess up their plan.
Although this proves waaay more difficult
than expected because there’s more than
300 levels, in fact there are 333 and usually
by floor 100, there’s no more food left
but the scraps of scraps.
Which still holds true even with the rationing
but when the duo finally arrive to the bottom
they find a child, Miharu's child, to whom they give the cream dessert [edit: NOT CHEESE]
before sending her up
on the platform, back up to Level 0.
With the film ending with the child rising,
leaving behind Goreng and Baharat.
So with all of that said, it’s very clear that
this movie is very artsy.
It’s not your typical film: there’s a message here
there are fantastical elements here,
there is a clear thesis statement being
made that gives this movie a "character"
And it’s because of these factors that I
believe you shouldn’t look at this movie like a
strange, unexplainable and twist ending
movie like we usually cover on this channel
Instead you should look at this as a story
This film is very much a fable or an allegory
like Plato’s Cave with a very
clear takeaway about humanity
what drives us to betray each other
and how do we resolve that?
My takeway is that the big thing that does so
in the first place, that is to say that divides us
are the systems that are in place:
the film is set in a dystopian future
where resources are scarce and people voluntarily
enter prison because there are net benefits
which is absurd to me
But as we see, the whole things kinda scam
with people set up for failure when a crucial
part of existing is limited a.k.a. food
and so the haves and the have-nots are
divided instantly by their levels
With those in the lower crusts assuredly
despising those on top all the while
suffering from starvation and insanity brought upon by hunger and in order to have some sense of agency
These people go to extreme lengths like killing each
other or cannibalizing for the sake of survival
While those up top, have to live with guilt
or apathy of their feasting:
Do they eat just enough to get by?
Do they eat as much as they can since in a
month’s time they might be able to eat as much
Food anymore? Should we think of me
Or should we think you?
there’s a very clear class warfare theme going
on throughout this movie although this film
doesn't just focus on the ups and downs
of being up and down.
It also looks at class warfare horizontally,
that is to say, what divides people who are
in the same boat?
Tamagasi does whatever he can to screw over
the other inmates because that is as much
power as he can get inside of here
besides simply killing his celly.
Other than that there’s not much to do.
Though at the same time, you have someone
like Miharu who does kill Tamagasi out of
her own moral code, although what
divides her from Tamagasi is
her psychological and intrinsic need and desire which is
the want to find her child in this prison and whether
Whether she knew it or not but by saving Goreng,
she allows Goreng to fulfill this want for
her by the end of the film and rescue her child
by putting her on the platform heading up
to Level 0.
Conversely, the film also talks
about what drives people together:
familiarity and selflessness like with
Imoguiri whose name I again butchered
and who as I said before, Goreng knew prior to being imprisoned, because she was his interviewer
and who ultimately sacrifices her body for Goreng’s survival
Now the thing is the woman herself didn’t know that it
would be this bad in here and as a former interviewer
who sent people to this pit, her sacrifice
would be the first step towards making up
for potentially sending hundreds to their
deaths and enacting change within through
Goreng and his stomach, giving Goreng the strength to continue on in this prison and potentially enact change
inside and who ultimately succeeds
by meeting up and working with Baharat
and together they bond over their
simple and heroic plan.
Their humane plan to control the system, inversely, for
the betterment of everyone who is controlled
by said system.
Throwing away the rational egoism and pessimism
for something more optimistic if utilitarian.
Sort of like an ant colony kept inside a glass
box by a human, there’s not much they can
do to break the glass, so might as well as
start digging in this sand
Much in a similar way, the prisoners have
to exploit the system and do what they can
with the rules provided and it's very clear that
There’s a big theme and message here about overconsumption and sustainability.
A society that is constrained and limited
in resource, must be smart with how they manage
their resources. So if the resources
are allocated in such a way
that only a small number of people can
benefit, you screw over a lot of people
which morally is wrong and probably isn't
going to work in your favor in the long term
Because even then, the film proposes that the
position of those at the top is precarious
and those people won’t always be up there which
is an interesting take on the whole issue
of resources and resource management. Now mind you these resources don't have to strictly be food
They can also be manpower
As evidence of this idea, by the end of the film,
we Goreng and Baharat themselves
become these human resources as rationeers of the
food which is ironic considering that the
words ‘goreng’ and ‘baharat’ refers
to fried foods and a spice blend respectively.
Kind of like a Dragon Ball Z naming scheme
going on over here but anyway
In the end, we as people have got to lift each
other up, we have to do what we can with what
we got, and if possible fight against the injustice
within a system like a knight of a chivalric
story. Goreng himself goes from "just some dude"
to what could be described as a knight, having a just cause to fight for, a maiden to save, as well as
his own giants to slay whether they
be a person or a system
And I think that we have got to do that too:
be humanistic, be empathetic, be hopeful that
we can enact change even if we have to go
out on the frontlines to ration out what supplies
and resources we have even if it's at
our own expense like
skills, talents, experience, or
worst case scenario--our lives.
Because nothing lasts forever and the carrying capacity
of the planet is only going to decrease until
solutions are found. Stop gaps or otherwise.
We have to approach this issue with the hope of Esther
Boserup rather than the cynicism of Thomas Malthus
And one last thing before I go, ironically, although
Don Quixote was a satire of romantic stories
of dashing knights saving fair maidens and
being utterly idealistic and lambasting such
ideals: the story, the Don Quijote tale
a satire, led to a resurgence of the very genre,
Cervantes was trying to make fun of
In the end hope and idealism is the way forward, regardless of where you stand on the political spectrum,
and in the current political climate, with
the activism, the division, and outspokenness
of people in many different countries: I think
we should keep in mind that we all live here
on the planet in a boring neo-cyberpunk corporate
world full of organizations and systems that
want to keep us at each other’s throats
instead of knocking on the doors of the upper
echelons. But I digress, what do you guys think?
Do you agree with the points I made?
Do you think the movie was a
bit too blunt or preachy?
What is your takeaway from the film?
Let me know with a comment down below.
With that said, thank you so much for watching
Ladies and Gentlemen, if you enjoyed the video
leave a like down below and subscribe to get
updated on my latest uploads.
Hasta luego, everyone.
See you next time.